-- CONCLUSION

After carefully querying, analysing, and visualising the charity Education for All's EFO Donation Data and EFO Donor Data, I was able to draw a number of conclusions and make a number of recommendations based on my findings regarding the business problems of increasing donors in the database, increasing donation value, and increasing donation frequency.

The statistics reveal, first, that 24.7% of the donors are inactive and provide no donations, drastically reducing the value of the donations received. Yet, 292 of the active contributors only give once, indicating that the vast majority of active donors only give once, driving down the value of donations. Based on these observations, it's prudent to take steps that educate and sensibilize lapsed donors into making at least one contribution, which boosts the value of all donations, and that also encourage active contributors to make more contributions, which boosts donations even further.

From the data, it is also clear that weekly donors are few. However, the weekly donation frequency may be increased by targeting the inactive contributors in the database with a call to action, as the 3.7% of donors who do donate weekly now account for 23.7% of the overall donation.

The fact that just three states have more than 80 contributors demonstrates that the vast majority of states have very few donors. In order to address this, considerable education about the charity is needed in these other states.

The data also shows that individuals with a university degree who donate more than the median value of donation, which is between $250 and $500, make up 37.4% of all donors, while those without a university degree make up only 12.2% of all donors. This finding simply means that individuals without a university degree need to be encouraged by explaining more of the advantages of the charity to them in order to increase their donations.

When further questions are asked of the datasets, it becomes clear that while individuals working in Business Development make up the largest single group of donors, those working in Human Resources provide the most donations as a group. Many reasons contribute to this situation, including the fact that most people in the Business Development profession only make a single donation. Hence, we need to get more people working in Business Development to donate more often, and we need to get them to give more. Increasing the number of contributors in the Human Resources industry and donations overall requires raising awareness about the charity among professionals in that field.

Unfortunately, several dataset columns did not give substantial insights into solving the business challenge of growing contributors, donations, and donation frequency, including car, shirt size, second language, movie genre, and favourite colour. It's clear that there are some pertinent inquiries to be made, such as how the contributors heard about the organisation and whether or not they support other charities. The charity may use the answers to these types of questions and the resulting data to focus its efforts on the areas of greatest need in terms of sensitization and enlightenment and therefore attract a larger donation pool. Donation frequency can be improved by gathering information on whether or not contributors are active with other charitable organisations. The value of donations will rise in tandem with the number of contributors and the regularity with which they make contributions thanks to them.
